Why Docker Does Not Install Java Separately When Scaling Containers ?

Understanding Scaling in Docker
When you scale your containers from 1 to 100, Docker does not install Java separately on each new container. Instead, it reuses the same Docker image, which already has Java inside. Here's how it works step by step:

1. Your Docker image includes Java

Example: If you use eclipse-temurin:17 as the base image, Java is already installed inside the image.
Every container started from this image inherits Java automatically.

2. When you scale, Docker does NOT install Java separately

Docker simply creates multiple instances of containers from the same image.
Since Java is part of the image, it is already there inside each container.
No separate installation is triggered.
What Happens Internally When Scaling?

Docker pulls the image only once to your machine (if it's not already there).
When scaling, Docker just spins up multiple containers from the same image.
Since the image already contains Java, each new container has Java by default.
No separate installation scripts or downloads are triggered.
Example: Scaling a Spring Boot Container

Step 1: Build Your Docker Image
Your Dockerfile might look like this:


FROM eclipse-temurin:17  # Base image with Java installed  
WORKDIR /app  
COPY target/myapp.jar myapp.jar  
CMD ["java", "-jar", "myapp.jar"]  
Now, you build the image:


docker build -t my-springboot-app .
Step 2: Run & Scale
Run a single instance:


docker run -d -p 8080:8080 my-springboot-app
Scale it up to 100 instances:

docker-compose up --scale app=100
or in Kubernetes:

kubectl scale deployment my-springboot-app --replicas=100
Step 3: What Happens Internally?
✅ Docker does not install Java 100 times.
✅ It just creates 100 containers from the same image.
✅ Each container already has Java inside from the image.

Why This is Efficient?

No redundant downloads: The image is used as-is.
Faster startup: Containers are created instantly without extra installation.
Lightweight & reusable: The same Java runtime is inside each container without reinstallation.
Final Answer
📌 When you scale to 100 containers, Docker does not install Java separately for each one.
📌 Instead, each container is created from the same pre-built image, which already contains Java.
📌 This makes scaling fast and efficient. 